In this video we're going to talk about how to set up for Android development on a Mac.
If you don't have a Mac and are planning to build Android apps on a Windows machine.
Skip ahead to the next video.
So first off you need something called a Java development kit.
The Java development kit includes things like the Java runtime environment and the Java compiler.
So how do we check if we've already got it.
Click on search and open your open your terminal from there or just type Java space dash version.
Now if you've already got Java installed and your version number will pop up here and we're looking
for something 1.8 or higher.
So I've got one point 8.0 underscore 7:7 and that's fine.
If you don't have the Java development environment installed you will see a different message.
You will see something like this.
No Java Runtime present requesting install.
If you don't have the Java development environment installed or you don't have at least version one
point eight then type in download Java development kit into Google and head to the Oracle Web site on
the Oracle Web site.
You should see the latest Java development kit available for download.
So just click accept license agreement and then over here download the GMG
once you've downloaded the GMG just double click on the icons and go through the regular standard install
process.
After you've successfully installed the Java Development Kit let's check the terminal one more time
to see if we've got the correct version.
So search for terminal and then type in Java Python version and just make sure it says at least one
point eight on here.
Now it's time to install Android studio say download Android studio
and we're going to head to developer dot Android dot com.
And here we're going to grab Android studio for Mac.
We can accept the terms and conditions and download another GMG
So you open at the MGM and drag it to your application folder and simply fire up Android studio.
It's a big program so if you've got an older computer might take a while until it fires up.
You might also see a prompt like this.
So just like I didn't have a previous version of Android studio and I do not want to import my settings
and after it's booted up you'll be dropped off at this welcome screen.
The first thing you actually want to do after you've just downloaded the Android sit you has you in
a click configure and you get a click Check for updates because chances are there's probably some updates
that you can download and install.
Great now that we've installed Android studio if you have a physical device now's the time that we configure
it so that we can install our apps on it.
So go to your settings and your phone and you probably have to scroll all the way down to the bottom
where it says about to about phone.
And there you have to look for something called the bill number.
So on this HGC it's under software information.
Then more.
And there it's buried as a line item.
You click on that seven times of Tappenden seven times that after a while you start getting these messages
your X steps away from being a developer after you tap it seven times.
To become part of the secret club and a secret menu appears that was previously hidden so under your
settings you should see something called developer options and you click on that.
And there you see a thing called USPO debugging.
So you want to make sure you enable that because that option is crucial for making sure your phone is
being recognized when you plug it into your computer.
So for comparison here's a nexus device and there's again there's the outbound phone section that's
organized slightly differently and the build numbers there in the menu just have to hunt around for
it depending on what kind of phone you've got after you have enabled developer mode on your phone or
tablet find your USP cables.
Now mind you try to find some quality ones either the ones that came with the device when you bought
it or some good ones that you got off Amazon.
Finally we're going to do is we're going to open Android studio and started a new project just to check
everything is working to make sure that our phone is being recognized by the computer.
So we just started a new project in the Android studio and just click next a couple of times in the
wizard to start a blank project here and just wait for Android studio to create the project.
After Android studio finishes building the project we should drop you off on a screen like this.
Now click the Android monitor down here and it will open up this little tap and initialize the so-called
Android de-bug bridge.
This is responsible for talking to your device.
Now plug in your Android device into your computer and wait for a bit.
And what should happen is it should show up here and you should see log messages starting to scroll
through the lock.
Now if you don't see that then maybe you haven't enabled us be debugging on your device.
So double check that the easiest way to check that is to look at the status bar on your Android device
and look for the Android shake debugging symbol or you've got a bad or damaged cable.
So in my case you can see that it connected but then it disconnected right away.
And that's because the cable that I've used is not very good and it's got a bit of a loose connection
so I hope you've got everything working and you manage to iron out any issues that you encountered in
the next lesson.
We're going to configure Android studios that are a bit more user friendly and speeds up our workflow.